“People think that computer science is the art of geniuses but the
actual reality is the opposite, just many people doing things that
build on each other, like a wall of mini stones.”



function (role)

It is used to wrapped a peice o fprogram in a value.
Gives a way to structure larger programs.
helps in reducing the repeation of code.
helps in isolating other subprogramm form sub programm.

(Use)
 a function is created with an express "function" keyword in
 the beggining, it have sets of parameter and body which contains the statement 
 that are to be executed when callled;

||  const square = function(x) {
return x * x;
};
console.log(
||

(pecualarities)

A function can have multiple parameter or no parameter at all.
Some function produce a vlaue and soem don't.
Those functions which dont produce a value give "side effects'.


RETURN (keyword)

a return keyword determine the value a function will return.
when control comes to such statement it jumps from the current function 
and return a value.

A return keyword with no statement return 'undefined' and jumps out of the function

function with no return statement similarly gives back 'undefined'.



BINDING AND SCOPES

Each BINDING has a scope.
Scope of a binding is the part of programm in which it is visible.

Any binding defined out side any programm is of scope global because you can you that binding whenever you want.


LOCAL BINDINGS

The bindings created inside a function has scope of local.
this binding is only visible to the  the parameter or the functions inside that function only

Every time a function is callled a new instances of that binding is created.

PROS
This provide some isolation between some functions.
each function call acts in its own little world and can often be understood without knowing alot about the global environment.


BINDINGS created with let and const keyword are local to block that they are declared in.

eg. if a binding is declared in a loop the code before the loop and after the loop can't see the binding in that block.


VAR (keyword);

binding declared with var keyword has scope local throught out the function in which it was declared.


NESTED SCOPE 


Javascript distinguised not only global and local binding .
block and function can be created inside another block and function producing multiple degree of locality.

FUNCTION AS VALUE

function binding (or storing a function to a name usinf let and const) act as just a name to a fuction. once defined it cant be changed.

A function value can do all  the things that other values can do -
YOu can use it a an arbitrary function statement to another fuction.
you can pass its value to a new binding.


DECLARATION NOTATION


function definded with "DECLARATION NOTATION" will work even if definded later than a when it is called.

fuction DECLARATION are not the part of top to bottom flow of control;

they are moved to the top of the of their "scope" and can be used by all the code inside the scope.



ARROW FUNCTION

SYNTAX

||
(parameters) => 
{


}
||

when only one parameter is given the rounded brackets can be ommitted.
when the body of the statement is one-liner the return fuction can be ommitted to as the the result of the evalution is returned imediatly.




THE CALL STACK


It is the place where a computer stores the context.
Every time a fuction is called, the current context is saved in the call STACK.

when fuction returns something or end it remove the contexrt from the top



OPTIONAL ARGUMENTS

when given , ARGUMENTS more than a fuction asks will do no complain and will ignore the rest.
or
if given less the other missing values will be assigned the value of undefined.

CONS 

even someone accidently pass wrong number of ARGUMENTS there will no one to tell

PROS

this behaviour can be usefull as it can be allowed to called with different numbers of ARGUMENTS.


(parameter = something)

if used "=" this NOTATION after a parameter , followed by an expression,
it will repalce the value of ARGUMENTS if that ARGUMENTS is not given.


CLOSURE


The fact that we can treat a fuction as a value and fact that a new binding is re-created every time a function is called arises a intereting question.

what happens to a local binding when the fuction call that created them is no longer active?

In this scenario bith instances of the binding can still be accesed.

this situation is demostration of the fact that local bindings are created anew for every call, ans differnt calls cant trample on one another's loacl binding.

ability to reference a specific instances of a local binding in aenclosign scope is called - CLOSURE.

A function that reference binding from local scopes around it is called CLOSURE



RECURSION

when a fuction calls itself , this type of behaviour is known as RECURSION.
and it is sperfectly okay!

In typical javascript implementation it is almost three times slower than the looping version.

it always have a base case , in from of flow statement or self satisfying scenario to avoid infinite recursion or call STACK overflow.



Extra.


""

The second way is that you find you need some functionality that you haven’t
written yet and that sounds like it deserves its own function. You’ll start by
naming the function, and then you’ll write its body. You might even start
writing code that uses the function before you actually define the function
itself.



""


FUNCTIONS AND ITS SIDE EFFECTS 

fuction can be roughly divided into those that are called for their side effects and those for thier values.

its possible to have both in a fuction.

the fuctions which gives value is easier to combine with other function than fuction that firectly prtforms side effects.


PURE FUNCTION

a pure function is a specific kind of value-producing function that not only has no side effects but also doesnt rely on the side effect from other code --- for example it should not read global binidngs whose value might changed


a pure function has a pleasant property that when called with same arguments it produces same value whthout changing the meaning of the code